1) Traps and trap placement may affect location of brown marmorated stink bug (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) and increase injury to tomato fruits in home gardens.
2) Landscape Factors Influencing Stink Bug Injury in Mid-Atlantic Tomato Fields.
3) Trading direct for indirect defense? Phytochrome B inactivation in tomato attenuates direct anti-herbivore defenses whilst enhancing volatile-mediated attraction of predators.
4) Stage-Related Defense Response Induction in Tomato Plants by Nesidiocoris tenuis.
5) Parasitism and Predation on Sentinel Egg Masses of the Brown Marmorated Stink Bug (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) in Three Vegetable Crops: Importance of Dissections for Evaluating the Impact of Native Parasitoids on an Exotic Pest.
6) Impact of the zoophytophagous plant bug Nesidiocoris tenuis (Heteroptera: Miridae) on tomato yield.
7) Insights into the saliva of the brown marmorated stink bug Halyomorpha halys (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae).
8) Potential of Three Trap Crops in Managing Nezara viridula (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) on Tomatoes in Florida.
9) Risk of damage to tomato crops by the generalist zoophytophagous predator Nesidiocoris tenuis (Reuter) (Hemiptera: Miridae).
10) Influence of habitat pattern on orientation during host fruit location in the tomato fruit fly, Neoceratitis cyanescens.
11) Seasonal Abundance, Host Suitability, and Feeding Injury of the Brown Marmorated Stink Bug, Halyomorpha halys (Heteroptera: Penatomidae), in Selected Vegetables.
12) Phytotoxicity of tolylfluanid in tomatoes.
13) Biology of a Neotropical Harlequin Stink Bug, Runibia perspicua (F.).
14) Identification and impact of natural enemies of Bactericera cockerelli (Hemiptera: Triozidae) in Southern California.
15) Evaluation of a commercially available beneficial insect habitat for management of lepidoptera pests.
16) Characterization of the symbiont Rickettsia in the mirid bug Nesidiocoris tenuis (Reuter) (Heteroptera: Miridae).
17) Toxicity, feeding preference, and repellency associated with selected organic insecticides against Acrosternum hilare and Euschistus servus (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae).
18) Suppression of insect pest populations and damage to plants by vermicomposts.
19) Zoophthora radicans (Entomophthorales), a fungal pathogen of Bagrada hilaris and Bactericera cockerelli (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae and Triozidae): Prevalence, pathogenicity, and interplay of environmental influence, morphology, and sequence data on fungal identification.
20) Does Foraging Experience Affect the Responses of the Predator Dicyphus hesperus Knight to Prey-Induced Volatiles?
