1) The invasive brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys (Stål) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae), is an important pest of field crops, fruit orchards, commercial vegetables, ornamental plants, and home vegetable gardens. Pheromone-baited traps designed to attract, trap, and kill H. halys are marketed for use in home gardens to reduce damage to plants. To test this assertion, we conducted the following experiment: One group of 15 gardeners placed stink bug traps at the end of a row of tomatoes, Solanum lycopersicum (L.), in their vegetable garden and another group of 14 placed no traps in their garden and served as controls. Gardeners with traps were no more or less likely to have H. halys on tomato plants than those without traps, but the abundance of H. halys on tomato fruits was marginally greater in gardens with traps. However, tomato fruits grown in gardens with traps sustained significantly more injury than tomato fruits grown in gardens without traps. Furthermore, tomato fruits on plants near the trap housed more H. halys than tomato fruits on plants at the end of a row away from the trap. Traps may be useful in identifying gardens where H. halys is likely to be found and ones in which stink bug injury to tomatoes is likely. We found no evidence that stink bug traps protected tomatoes from H. halys, and it appears that the addition of traps to gardens may increase injury to tomato fruits. 
2) Landscape structure and diversity influence insect species abundance. In agricultural systems, adjacent crop and non-crop habitats can influence pest species population dynamics and intensify economic damage. To investigate the influence of landscape factors on stink bug damage in agricultural systems, we assessed stink bug damage from 30 processing tomato fields in the mid-Atlantic United States and analyzed landscape structure and geographic location. We found that forest shape and size, and geographic location strongly influenced stink bug damage. Landscapes with larger forest edge in southern portions of the mid-Atlantic region experienced the greatest damage, perhaps owing to the introduction of the invasive brown marmorated stink bug. We conclude that landscape structure will likely influence damage rates in nearby agricultural fields.
3) Under conditions of competition for light, which lead to the inactivation of the photoreceptor phytochrome B (phyB), the growth of shade-intolerant plants is promoted and the accumulation of direct anti-herbivore defenses is down-regulated. Little is known about the effects of phyB on emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which play a major role as informational cues in indirect defense. We investigated the effects of phyB on direct and indirect defenses in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) using two complementary approaches to inactivate phyB: illumination with a low red to far-red ratio, simulating competition, and mutation of the two PHYB genes present in the tomato genome. Inactivation of phyB resulted in low levels of constitutive defenses and down-regulation of direct defenses induced by methyl jasmonate (MeJA). Interestingly, phyB inactivation also had large effects on the blends of VOCs induced by MeJA. Moreover, in two-choice bioassays using MeJA-induced plants, the predatory mirid bug Macrolophus pygmaeus preferred VOCs from plants in which phyB was inactivated over VOCs from control plants. These results suggest that, in addition to repressing direct defense, phyB inactivation has consequences for VOC-mediated tritrophic interactions in canopies, presumably attracting predators to less defended plants, where they are likely to find more abundant prey.
4) The beneficial effects of direct predation by zoophytophagous biological control agents (BCAs), such as the mirid bug Nesidiocoris tenuis, are well-known. However, the benefits of zoophytophagous BCAs' relation with host plants, via induction of plant defensive responses, have not been investigated until recently. To date, only the females of certain zoophytophagous BCAs have been demonstrated to induce defensive plant responses in tomato plants. The aim of this work was to determine whether nymphs, adult females, and adult males of N. tenuis are able to induce defense responses in tomato plants. Compared to undamaged tomato plants (i.e., not exposed to the mirid), plants on which young or mature nymphs, or adult males or females of N. tenuis fed and developed were less attractive to the whitefly Bemisia tabaci, but were more attractive to the parasitoid Encarsia formosa. Female-exposed plants were more repellent to B. tabaci and more attractive to E. formosa than were male-exposed plants. When comparing young- and mature-nymph-exposed plants, the same level of repellence was obtained for B. tabaci, but mature-nymph-exposed plants were more attractive to E. formosa. The repellent effect is attributed to the signaling pathway of abscisic acid, which is upregulated in N. tenuis-exposed plants, whereas the parasitoid attraction was attributed to the activation of the jasmonic acid signaling pathway. Our results demonstrate that all motile stages of N. tenuis can trigger defensive responses in tomato plants, although these responses may be slightly different depending on the stage considered. 
5) We conducted a survey to examine parasitism, predation, and the species composition of native parasitoids attacking sentinel egg masses of the invasive pest, the brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys (Stål), in bell pepper, squash, and tomato. A 2-yr survey was conducted for each crop. The species composition of parasitoids was determined for parasitoids that successfully emerged from eggs, parasitoids that were identified from dissections, and parasitoids that were found attending egg masses at the time of collection. The overall rate of brown marmorated stink bug nymphal emergence was 82.7% from laboratory-reared control egg masses compared with only 23.4% from sentinel egg masses due to a combination of predation, parasitism, and unknown mortality causes. Overall, 12.4% of sentinel eggs were parasitized. Parasitoids emerged successfully from only 2.3% of eggs, but they were dissected from an additional 10.1% of eggs. Telenomus podisi Ashmead was the predominant species identified from emerged parasitoids (57.4%), dissected parasitoids (90.2%), and parasitoids attending egg masses (77%). This study provides further evidence that the impact of native parasitoids on brown marmorated stink bug egg mortality may be greatly underestimated based solely on parasitoid emergence rates alone.
6) Nesidiocoris tenuis Reuter (Heteroptera: Miridae) is one of the most controversial dicyphines because of the injuries it causes to tomato (Solanum esculentum) crops. The aim of this study was to quantify the impact of N. tenuis on fruit yield. Tomato plants were exposed to an average of 0.53 +/- 0.26, 3.4 +/- 1.1, 12.0 +/- 1.4, and 35.2 +/- 7.7 N. tenuis per plant for 3 wk. When fruit were exposed to N. tenuis as flowers, the percentage of aborted fruit was higher in compartments infested with N. tenuis, and this was related directly to the cumulative number of N. tenuis (CNN). However, compartments with the highest abortion rates had heavier and bigger fruit and were not significantly different from the controls. The variation in fruit weight was satisfactorily explained with a logistic equation in relation to the proportion of aborted fruit. To estimate the density thresholds, the variation in truss weight was predicted as a function of fruit weight and aborted fruit. The two latter variables were expressed as a function of the CNN. A maximum of 15% truss weight overcompensation was predicted at 15.8% of fruit abortion. Yield reduction was predicted at fruit abortion rates > or = 27.7%, which corresponded to 566 CNN per plant or 32.11 CNN per leaf. N. tenuis may be considered a useful predator of small pests in tomato crops if kept under these thresholds. Mathematical models predict a yield increase and fruit upgrade that overcompensates for the reduction in the number of fruit below the density threshold.
7) We examined the salivary gland structure of the brown marmorated stink bug (Pentatomidae: Halyomorpha halys) and developed methods for independent collection of watery saliva and sheath saliva. This stink bug has become a serious invasive pest of agriculture in the United States and its saliva is largely responsible for the damage it causes. We determined by protein gel analysis and shotgun proteomics that the suite of proteins comprising the sheath and watery saliva are very distinct. Our results indicate that a substantial amount of sheath proteins are derived from tomato when stink bugs feed on tomato fruit. Consequently, the sheath saliva is comprised of both insect and plant-derived proteins. Both sheath and watery saliva possessed amylase activities, but polyphenol oxidase and glucose oxidase activities were not detected in either saliva. Peroxidase activity was only detected in salivary sheaths, but only when stink bugs fed on tomato. Proteomic analysis indicated that the peroxidase was likely of plant origin. We also determined that sheath saliva, but not watery saliva elicited the jasmonate inducible defense gene proteinase inhibitor 2 (Pin2), but this induction was only observed when sheaths had been collected from tomato. This indicates that the eliciting factor of the saliva is likely of plant origin. Lastly, neither watery or sheath saliva affected the expression of the salicylate inducible gene pathogenesis related gene (Pr1a-P4).
8) The southern green stink bug, Nezara viridula (L.) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae), is a serious insect pest of tomatoes in Florida. In this study, we examined the use of three species of trap crops to manage N. viridula in North Florida tomato crops in 2014 and 2015. We used striped sunflower (Helianthus annuus) (Asterales: Asteraceae) and wild game feed sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) (Poales: Poaceae) in both years, but different species of millet each year: browntop millet (Panicum ramosum) (Poales: Poaceae) in 2014 and pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) (Poales: Poaceae) in 2015. The number of stink bug adults collected from wild game feed sorghum exceeded the number from sunflower, and none were collected from either species of millet. Sorghum attracted a significantly higher number of adults than did striped sunflower; however, both sunflower and sorghum attracted the adults of N. viridula. Adults of the pest feed on the sorghum panicle and sunflower head (inflorescence). Although fewer stink bugs were found feeding on sunflower, the sunflower was found to be a good source of other natural enemies and pollinators and also attracted significantly greater numbers of the brown stink bug Euschistus servus (Say) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) (another pest of tomatoes). While this study demonstrated the effectiveness of sorghum, we recommend that sorghum be planted with another trap crop, preferably sunflower, for better preventive control of the southern green stink bug.
9) Nesidiocoris tenuis (Reuter) (Hem. Miridae) is a native zoophytophagous predator of the Mediterranean region, and its populations colonize tomato crops when they are not heavily treated with insecticides. This generalist predator has a high capacity for controlling insect pests, and it is currently commercially produced and released in some areas to control Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hem. Aleyrodidae). However, its status as a pest and/or as beneficial is controversial. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of damage to tomatoes in extreme conditions of prey scarcity, as well as high predator populations. Three predator densities were tested in a greenhouse cage experiment during a summer tomato crop. The crop did not display any negative effect caused by the predators during the first six weeks of interaction, independently of the density released. However, subsequently, the effect was dramatic, both on the vegetative growth of the plant and on the production of fruits. The reduction in vegetative growth was located at truss eight and it was expressed mainly by a lower number of leaves and a shorter length of the shoot above the truss. There was a significant reduction of yield with a lower number of fruits collected and a smaller mean weight, although this was not observable until truss seven. It seems that feeding on the plant by this mirid bug competed with the vegetative growth and fruiting processes of the plant in the extreme conditions of prey shortage maintained in our experiment.
10) Fruit flies have evolved mechanisms using olfactory and visual signals to find and recognize suitable host plants. The objective of the present study was to determine how habitat patterns may assist fruit flies in locating host plants and fruit. The tomato fruit fly, Neoceratitis cyanescens (Bezzi), was chosen as an example of a specialized fruit fly, attacking plants of the Solanaceae family. A series of experiments was conducted in an outdoor field cage wherein flies were released and captured on sticky orange and yellow spheres displayed in pairs within or above potted host or non-host plants. Bright orange spheres mimicking host fruit were significantly more attractive than yellow spheres only when placed within the canopy of host plants and not when either within non-host plants or above both types of plants. Additional experiments combining sets of host and non-host plants in the same cage, or spraying leaf extract of host plant (bug weed) on non-host plants showed that volatile cues emitted by the foliage of host plants may influence the visual response of flies in attracting mature females engaged in a searching behaviour for a laying site and in assisting them to find the host fruit. Moreover, the response was specific to mature females with a high oviposition drive because starved mature females, immature females and males showed no significant preference for orange spheres. Olfactory signals emitted by the host foliage could be an indicator of an appropriate habitat, leading flies to engage in searching for a visual image.
11) The invasive brown marmorated stink bug,Halyomorpha halys(Stål) (Heteroptera: Penatomidae), is a major pest of agricultural crops in the Mid-Atlantic States. Here we report the seasonal abundance, host preference, and injury potential ofH. halyson tomato, bell pepper, green bean, sweet corn, eggplant, and okra in a small-scale, diversified vegetable farm setting. Life-stage densities, feeding injury, and crop phenology were monitored throughout the growing season in each crop. Populations consisted of both overwintered adults and F1 progeny and encompassed almost two generations over the growing season.H. halyspreferred host plants with reproductive structures for feeding and was more abundant and capable to reproduce on vegetable crops that had extended periods of fruiting. Sweet corn, okra, and bell pepper had significant higher abundances of adults and nymphs compared with green bean, eggplant, and tomato. Results showed significant differences in the reproductive suitability of the host plants, as evident by the relative proportion of nymphal stages to adults. Eggplant, okra, and bell pepper were the most suitable host plants for reproduction and development, as evident by higher proportions of nymphs, with abundance trends indicating progressive development to adult eclosion. Crop loss potential due toH. halysfeeding injury varied significantly among vegetable host plants. Sweet corn, okra, bell pepper, and tomato were very susceptible and experienced the highest injury rate per stink bug. The implications of these findings with respect to sampling and management ofH. halysin vegetable production are discussed.
12) The use of Euparen Multi (tolylfluanid) for controlling Botrytis cinerea in tomatoes has been decreased the last decade for several reasons. Because of the lack of different fungicides with a good efficacy it is important that growers can use different fungicides to prevent development of resistance of Botrytis cinerea against many fungicides. Tolylfluanid has negative side effects on some insect populations that are used for biological control. It is known that Euparen Multi and Euparen can have a negative effect on some predatory mites (Schmidt and Zeller, 1998) such as Phytoseiulus persimilis and some parasitic wasps like Encarsia formosa, Eretmocerus eremicus, Diglyphus isaea and Dacnusa sibirica. Recently investigation indicates that this fungicide is harmless for the predatory bug Macrolophus caliginosus (Biobest, 2006) frequently used in the cultivation of tomatoes as a predator for whitefly (Trialeurodes vaporariorum). To investigate if tolylfluanid has a phytotoxic effect on tomato plants an experiment was performed. Young tomato plants were used, who are more sensitive. These plants were subdivided in different groups, from which each one was sprayed with a different concentration of tolylfluanid. The highest concentrations of tolylfluanid were used to stimulate the visibility of the possible phytotoxic effects. Results of this experiment demonstrate that there wasn't a difference between the different groups that were sprayed with tolylfluanid or the control group. This indicates that tolylfluanid doesn't seem to be phytotoxic. It is also important to mention that this experiment was done in the fall when the intensity of the sunlight was decreasing. There still exists the possibility that extreme irradiation in combination with tolylfluanid can provoke a phototoxic effect on young tomato plants.
13) Laboratory and field studies were conducted with nymphs and adults of the Neotropical stink bug Runibia perspicua (F.) to evaluate their biology on plants. Total nymph mortality was ca. 13% on immature fruits of Brunfelsia australis Benth. (IFBA) and 90% on raw shelled peanuts, Arachis hypogaea L. (RSP); no nymphs survived on immature pods of green bean, Phaseolus vulgaris L., or on immature fruits of privet, Ligustrum lucidum Ait. Nymph developmental time was ca. 36 on IFBA and 55 days on RSP. Body weight was significantly greater when nymphs were raised isolated compared to those raised in groups. Adult feeding activity was greater than third instars on IFBA. Adult longevity on IFBA + cherry tomato, Solanum lycopersicum L. fruit, reached ca. 150 days. On IFBA, fecundity was 2.5 egg masses/female and 48.3 eggs/female; 25.6% of the eggs hatched. Adults did not reproduce on tomato. Body weight gain did not increase significantly for both sexes during the first four weeks of adult life on IFBA. In the field, plants of B. australis were surveyed in Passo Fundo, RS (28°15'S; 52°24'W). The majority of egg masses were deposited on the lower (abaxial) surface of leaves. Nymphs aggregated on immature fruits, and adults were seldom found on the plants. These are the first data on the performance of R. perspicua on B. australis indicating that this plant species is suitable to the bug's biology.
14) Bactericera cockerelli (Sulc) (Hemiptera: Triozidae) is a major pest of potato, (Solanum tuberosum L.), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), and peppers (Capsicum spp.). The purpose of our research was to identify and determine the impact of natural enemies on B. cockerelli population dynamics. Through 2 yr of field studies (2009-2010) at four different sites and laboratory feeding tests, we identified minute pirate bug, Orius tristicolor (White) (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae); western bigeyed bug, Geocoris pallens Stål (Hemiptera:Geocoridae), and convergent lady beetle, Hippodamia convergens Guérin-Méneville (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) as key natural enemies of B. cockerelli in southern California potatoes, tomatoes, and bell peppers. In natural enemy exclusion cage experiments in the potato crop and in American nightshade, Solanum americanum Miller, the number of B. cockerelli surviving was significantly greater in the closed cage treatments, thus confirming the affect natural enemies can have on B. cockerelli. We discuss how this information can be used in an integrated pest management program for B. cockerelli.
15) A field study was conducted in 2003 and 2004 at the Center for Environmental Farming Systems in Goldsboro, NC, to evaluate the effectiveness of a commercially available beneficial insect habitat in decreasing pest caterpillar populations in organically managed tomato, Lycopersicon esculentum Mill., plots. Six pairs of tomato plots were established and a commercial beneficial insect habitat seed mix (Peaceful Valley's Good Bug Blend) transplanted around the perimeter of treatment plots, whereas a brown-top millet, Brachiaria ramose (L.) Stapf., border was planted around control plots. Egg predation, egg parasitism by trichogrammatid wasps, and larval parasitism by braconid wasps was monitored throughout the growing season to determine whether habitat increased their activity. In both years of this study, the density of Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) and Manduca spp. eggs was not significantly different between treatment and control plots. Although parasitism was the most important component of egg mortality (19-49%), parasitism was not significantly different between habitat types. Identifiable predation was a minor component (3-9%) of egg fate; it is possible that unidentified predation may be part of the approximately 35-52% of eggs that met unknown fates. Larval parasitism levels ranged from approximately 10 to 90% but was not significantly influenced by the presence of beneficial insect habitat in either year of the study. These results demonstrate that natural enemy activity in organic tomatoes was not amplified, and pest populations were not reduced by the presence of a commercially available beneficial insect habitat.
16) Nesidiocoris tenuis (Reuter) (Heteroptera: Miridae) is an omnivorous insect used for biological control. Augmentative release and conservation of N. tenuis have been used for pest control in tomato crops. Intracellular bacterial symbionts of arthropods are common in nature and have diverse effects on their hosts; in some cases they can dramatically affect biological control. Fingerprinting methods showed that the symbiotic complex associated with N. tenuis includes Wolbachia and Rickettsia. Rickettsia of N. tenuis was further characterized by sequencing the 16S rRNA and gltA bacterial genes, measuring its amount in different developmental stages of the insect by real-time polymerase chain reaction, and localizing the bacteria in the insect's body by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The Rickettsia in N. tenuis exhibited 99 and 96% similarity of both sequenced genes to Rickettsia bellii and Rickettsia reported from Bemisia tabaci, respectively. The highest amount of Rickettsia was measured in the 5th instar and adult, and the symbionts could be detected in the host gut and ovaries. Although the role played by Rickettsia in the biology of N. tenuis is currently unknown, their high amount in the adults and localization in the gut suggest that they may have a nutritional role in this insect. 
17) Experiments were conducted to evaluate the toxicity, feeding preference, repellency, and field efficacy associated with the organic insecticides azadirachtin, pyrethrins, and spinosad against two stink bug species, Acrosternum hilare (Say) and Euschistus servus (Say) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae). Laboratory toxicity bioassays were conducted using treated green bean pods. The conventional pyrethroid lamda-cyhalothrin was included for comparison. A. hilare adults and nymphs were most susceptible to lamda-cyhalothrin and to tank mixes of pyrethrins + spinosad. E. servus adults were susceptible to lamda-cyhalothrin, spinosad, and all tank mixes, whereas E. servus nymphs were susceptible to lamda-cyhalothrin only. Feeding preference tests were conducted using insecticide-treated tomatoes and counting the number of feeding stylet sheaths on fruit after 24 h. All tomatoes treated with either azadirachtin, pyrethrins, or tank mixes resulted in fewer numbers of stylet sheaths than the untreated control, whereas treatment with spinosad alone did not. In filter paper repellency tests, both E. serous and A. hilare were repelled by pyrethrins and exhibited no response to azadirachtin. E. servus was attracted to spinosad in comparison with a water-treated control; however, A. hilare displayed no response. In field efficacy trials, each of the organic insecticides reduced the number of stink bugs in soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merr., for up to 2 d after treatment; however, none of the insecticides reduced stink bug damage to fruit in tomatoes even after multiple applications. Implications for organic growers and integrated pest management programs are discussed.
18) The effects of commercial vermicomposts, produced from food waste, on infestations and damage by aphids, mealy bugs and cabbage white caterpillars were studied in the greenhouse. Vermicomposts were used at substitution rates into a soil-less plant growth medium, MetroMix 360 (MM360), at rates of 100% MM360 and 0% vermicompost, 80% MM360 and 20% vermicompost, and 60% MM360 and 40% vermicompost to grow peppers (Capsicum annuum L.), tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) and cabbages (Brassica oleracea L.), in pots. Groups of 10 pots containing young plants were distributed randomly in nylon mesh cages (40 cm x 40 cm x 40 cm). Groups of 10 pepper seedlings in a single cage were infested with either 100 aphids (Myzus persicae Sulz.) or 50 mealy bugs (Pseudococcus spp.) per cage. Similar groups of tomato seedlings were infested with 50 mealy bugs per cage. Groups of four cabbage seedlings in pots in cages were infested with 16 cabbage white caterpillars (Pieris brassicae L.). Populations of aphids and mealy bugs were counted after 20 days and the shoot dry weights of peppers, tomatoes and cabbages were measured at harvest. Numbers of cabbage white caterpillars and loss in shoot weights were measured after 15 days. The substitution rates of 20% and 40% vermicomposts suppressed populations of both aphids and mealy bugs on peppers, and mealy bugs on tomatoes, significantly. Substitutions with vermicomposts into MM360 decreased losses of dry weights of peppers, in response to both aphid and mealy bug infestations, decreased losses in shoot dry weights of tomatoes after mealy bug infestations significantly. There were significantly decreased losses in leaf areas of cabbage seedlings in response to the cabbage white caterpillar infestations.
19) The exotic bagrada bug or painted bug, Bagrada hilaris, and the native potato/tomato psyllid, Bactericera (=Paratrioza) cockerelli, are key pests of horticulture in western North America. In 2014-2015, adult and juvenile B. hilaris and B. cockerelli killed by fungi in the genus Zoophthora were detected near Saltillo, northeastern Mexico. We report the field prevalence and observations of Zoophthora on these hosts. The morphology and growth characteristics of field-collected specimens and pure in vitro cultures, as well as molecular markers (ITS1 and ITS4) were analyzed to identify these Zoophthora populations. Although there were morphological spore differences detected among field collections from both insect hosts, the fungi causing these mycoses can be identified as the same species (Zoophthora radicans), according to morphometric data from in vitro cultures (where differences observed in field material were attenuated) and sequence data (96-99% identity for ITS1 and 4). These results underscore the plasticity of field collections and in vitro cultures, and the relevance of comprehensive morphological and molecular analysis from cultures under standard conditions. Dose-response bioassays were conducted with one Z. radicans strain against bagrada bug nymphs. Exposure to conidial showers from cultures induced 30-90% mortality. This is the first report of a natural enemy of bagrada bug in Mexico, and the first published report of entomophthoralean fungi naturally attacking bagrada bugs and potato psyllids. Z. radicans should be further investigated as a tool in the biological control of hemipterans.
20) The predatory mirid bug Dicyphus hesperus Knight (Hemiptera: Miridae) is a native North America species with high potential as biological control agent of the potato psyllid, Bactericera cockerelli Sulcer (Hemiptera: Triozidae), which is a major solanaceous pest. Olfactory responses of D. hesperus to volatiles from plants infested with the potato psyllid and the effect of foraging experience on search efficacy were studied. Using a Y-tube olfactometer, we found that naïve females had no preference in choice tests between either uninfested tomato plants, or Ephestia kuehniella Zeller (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) eggs-infested plants, and clean air. Naïve females showed an innate positive response to B. cockerelli-infested plants, but no preference when given a choice between uninfested tomato plants and E. kuehniella eggs-infested plants. However, females with experience of foraging on B. cockerelli-infested plants showed a strong preference for B. cockerelli-infested plants (78% response) in choice tests with uninfested tomato plants and E. kuehniella eggs-infested plants. Implications of learning for augmentative biological control are discussed.
