1) Leukocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin: a new graft material in endoscopic repair of spontaneous CSF leaks.
2) The mechanism of GM-CSF inhibition by human GM-CSF auto-antibodies suggests novel therapeutic opportunities.
3) Comparing the performance of CA 15-3 CSF to cytology in a cohort of patients with breast cancer leptomeningeal metastasis.
4) GM-CSF improves the immune response to the diphtheria-component in a multivalent vaccine.
5) Chronic depressive symptomatology and CSF amyloid beta and tau levels in mild cognitive impairment.
6) Effect of ABCC2 and ABCG2 Gene Polymorphisms and CSF-to-Serum Albumin Ratio on Ceftriaxone Plasma and Cerebrospinal Fluid Concentrations.
7) Introduction of Human Flt3-L and GM-CSF into Humanized Mice Enhances the Reconstitution and Maturation of Myeloid Dendritic Cells and the Development of Foxp3<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T Cells.
8) Protective Role of Myeloid Cells Expressing a G-CSF Receptor Polymorphism in an Induced Model of Lupus.
9) Outcome of uncorrected CSF leak and consequent recurrent meningitis in a patient: a case presentation and literature review.
10) Inorganic phosphorus (Pi) in CSF is a biomarker for SLC20A2-associated idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC1).
11) ZO-1 expression is suppressed by GM-CSF via miR-96/ERG in brain microvascular endothelial cells.
12) Advantages with prophylactic PEG-rhG-CSF versus rhG-CSF in breast cancer patients receiving multiple cycles of myelosuppressive chemotherapy: an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase III study.
13) Distinct Properties of Human M-CSF and GM-CSF Monocyte-Derived Macrophages to Simulate Pathological Lung Conditions In Vitro: Application to Systemic and Inflammatory Disorders with Pulmonary Involvement.
14) Variable impact of CSF flow suppression on quantitative 3.0T intracranial vessel wall measurements.
15) Analysis of various tracts of mastoid air cells related to CSF leak after the anterior transpetrosal approach.
16) Inhibition of the CSF-1 receptor sensitizes ovarian cancer cells to cisplatin.
17) When Cognitive Decline and Depression Coexist in the Elderly: CSF Biomarkers Analysis Can Differentiate Alzheimer's Disease from Late-Life Depression.
18) Heterogeneous effects of M-CSF isoforms on the progression of MLL-AF9 leukemia.
19) Parathyroid hormone related protein concentration in human serum and CSF correlates with age.
20) Time trends in utilization of G-CSF prophylaxis and risk of febrile neutropenia in a Medicare population receiving adjuvant chemotherapy for early-stage breast cancer.
